Give a brief elaboration of the below questions.
1. Give a brief difference between HBASE and HDFS.
Q2. List the main components of HBASE.
Ans:
In HBase, tables are split into regions and are served by the region servers. Regions are vertically divided by 
column families into “Stores”. Stores are saved as files in HDFS. The term ‘store’ is used for regions to explain the storage structure.

HBase has three major components: 
1.)the client library, 
2.)a master server, 
3.)and region servers. 

Region servers can be added or removed as per requirement.

Q3. Does Hbase support sql?
Ans:No
Q4. When should we use HBASE, list some of the scenarios for the same.
Ans:
If your application has a variable schema where each row is slightly different, then you should look at HBase. 
As an example, doing a modeling exercise using a standard relational schema; When you can’t add columns fast enough and most of them are NULL in each row, 
you should consider HBase. 
If you find that your data is stored in collections, for example some meta data, message data or binary data that is all keyed on 
the same value, then you should consider HBase. 
If you need key based access to data when storing or retrieving, then you should consider HBase
5. What are the different modes in which Hbase can be run?
Ans:Standalone and Distributed
Standalone HBase
This is the default mode. In standalone mode, HBase does not use HDFS -- it uses the local filesystem instead -- and it runs all HBase daemons 
and a local ZooKeeper all up in the same JVM. Zookeeper binds to a well known port so clients may talk to HBase.

Distributed
Distributed mode can be subdivided into distributed but all daemons run on a single node 
pseudo-distributed-- and fully-distributed where the daemons are spread across all nodes in the cluster .
Distributed modes require an instance of the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS).Before proceeding, ensure you have an appropriate, working HDFS.

Q6. Why is zookeeper needed in Hbase?
Ans:
HBase uses ZooKeeper for various distributed coordination services such as master election. As HBase develops and grows it continues to rely on ZooKeeper 
for additional functionality, making it a key part of the system.
Q8 Hbase is a schema less database, what does it mean?
Ans:
Q9 What is the minimum number of column family every Hbase table should have?
Ans:One.
Q10 What is the benefit of using connection pool in Hbase?
Ans:Connections are internally keyed by the configuration instance, you need to provide that instance to close the associated connection. The boolean stop
Proxy parameter lets you further enforce the cleanup of the entire RPC stack of the client—which is its umbilical cord to the remote servers. 
Only use true when you do not need any further communication with the server to take place.The deleteAllConnections() call only requires the boolean stopProxy flag; 
it simply iterates over the entire list of shared connections known to the connection manager and closes them.
Connection manager is responsible for managing connection .


