5. Problem Statement
Give a brief answers to the questions below:
1. Why Map-reduce program is needed in Pig Programming?
2. What are advantages of pig over MapReduce?
3. What is pig engine and what is its importance?
4. What are the modes of Pig execution?
5. What is grunt shell in Pig?
6. What are the features of Pig Latin language?
7. Is Pig latin commands case sensitive?
8. What is a data flow language?


Q1.Why Map-reduce program is needed in Pig Programming?
Ans.Pig is a data flow language and run on two modes Local mode and Mapreduce mode ,when it runs on Mapreduce mode the pig script
is converted into a series of Mapreduce jobs and run in Hadoop Cluster.

Q2.What are advantages of pig over MapReduce?
Ans.Pig required less development time as compair to other program.
Pig latin is much lower cost to write and maintain then java code.
Mapreduce does't have type system ,it gives the user flexibility to write their own data types .
Pig provides some complex, nontrivial implementations of these standard data operations.

Q3.What is pig engine and what is its importance?
Ans.Pig provides an engine atop hadoop for executing data flows in parallel on Hadoop. It includes a
language, Pig Latin, for expressing these data flows.


Q4.What are the modes of Pig execution?
Ans.Pig latin has two modes:-
Local Mode (pig -x local)
Mapreduce Mode (pig -x mapreduce)

Q5.What is grunt shell in Pig?
Ans.Grunt is Pig’s interactive shell. It enables users to enter Pig Latin interactively and
provides a shell for users to interact with HDFS.

Q6.What are the features of Pig Latin language?
Ans.Pig can operate on any data whether it is relational,unstructured or nested.
Pig is intended to be a language for parallel data processing not tied to hadoop only.
Pig is designed to be easily controlled and modified by its users.
Pig processes data quickly.  

Q7.Is Pig latin commands case sensitive?
Ans.yes 

Q8.What is a data flow language?
Ans.Pig Latin is a dataflow language. This means it allows users to describe how data from
one or more inputs should be read, processed, and then stored to one or more outputs
in parallel.It does't have any control flow construct .
